In this video we get to discuss routing information protocol.
This is a troubleshooting video.
We've been told that in this typology wrote one on the left cannot ping Rotto four on the right.
So let's verify that ping 4.4 at 4.4.
We can see that the pings are not succeeding.
So the information that we've been given is correct.
I'm going to disable IP domain look up to speed up a trace route and then I'm going to use trace route
to forward forward forward for we can see that the trace gets to tend at wondered one or.
But then doesn't get any further.
So show IP ROFFT we have network Forder for that 4.4 in the writing table.
It has a distance of 20 and a hop count of three.
It's available via standard wondered wondered to the local interface to use to get gigabit 00.
So we are learning about that network through a routing protocol which in this case is Ripp IP protocols
shows us that RP is enabled on the router and it's learning rots from Tanda wandered one to again when
we trace to 4.4 that 4.4 the trace gets to 10 but wondered wondered too and doesn't get any further.
So let's have a look at 10 1 1 2 which is rodded to show IP interface brief this atrocity.
This is the IP address that the trace route is getting to.
But it's not getting any further can we paying quadruple for here.
Yes we can show IP route the route is available in the writing table.
It was learnt via RUP and we are able to ping network 3:56 that 4.4.
So let's have a look on route for if the traffic from both routers gets to the router.
So I'll repeat the ping once pings succeeds and we can see that a reply sent back from radio for two
Rodek to 10 1 to 1 the IP address.
Now let's do a ping where we specify the source address being tendered one bit one to two and I'll repeat
that once so we pinging from router 2 but we pinging from the gigabit 0 interface the ping fails.
Here we told that an echo reply is going to be sent but notice the echo reply didn't get back.
So let's do a debug IP packet here.
Be very careful with this command in the real world.
I'll do the ping again.
And notice what we are seeing here on ratable.
The router doesn't know how to send the traffic back to that again.
We see unreadable on this side.
If we paying could triple four and repeat it once
we also see unridable messages for destination traffic of 10 that wandered 1.1.
So the traffic is getting too to fall.
But Rob Ford doesn't know how to get back notice in the writing table a Foy's learnt about network 3.3
to treat a 3 and 10 1 to zero but it's learnt about no other networks through rap.
So for some reason reform is not learning the rance.
Let's have a look at wrote a three show IP ranked this fraud is learning about the Lubeck of reform.
But it's not learning about network 10 1 1 0 or the Lubeck of wrote a one and wrote it too.
So let's have a look at the database the database and Rodda 3 only shows these networks 10 1 2 0 10
1 3 0.
These two networks and the loopback of rodders free and four.
It's not learning about this network.
And again the loop back to a rate of one and rockety can Rodda three paying rodded too.
Yes it can.
So we have IP connectivity between the two routers router two is learning about routes from router 3
but router 3 is not learning about routes from router to what is show IP protocols show us on both these
routers on a TE version 2 is used on all interfaces.
That's true on router 3 as well.
Rotisseries routing for network Taina network 3 router to is writing for network to a network 10 it's
got to Gateway's on the side we've also seemingly got to Gateway's but notice how old this entry is.
There seems to be a problem with Roths learnt from rodded T.
These entries are fresh.
This looks like a stale entry de-bug IP de-bug IP wrap all up updates being sent and received to sending
an update.
2 2 2 4 0 0 9 out of gigabit 0 0.
So aversion to using the well-known multicast address it's received an update on gigabit 0 0 sends an
update out of gigabit 0 0.
What about on the side sends an update to the loopback.
That's not of great importance.
Sends an update out of gigabit.
0 1 cirrhotic 2 is definitely advertising rats to rodef 3 but it doesn't look like rota 3 is receiving
updates on gigabit.
0 1 it's sending out an update but where is it receiving an update on gigabit 0 1 it received an update
on gigabit 0 0 but I don't see any updates received on gigabit 0 1 wrote it 2 is definitely sending
updates of gigabit to 0 1 so it's sending updates to router 3.
But it doesn't look like rotisseries receiving those updates.
Let's turn off debugging show access list.
Can you see the problem show run interface gigabit.
0 or 1.
Can you see the issue.
Ripp uses UDP port 520 for updates.
So if I use the command access list 100 denie UDP any any equal 520 that would equate to up so show
access list which showed the sentry that entry equates to this entry.
In other words 520 equals RP.
So what we need to do as an example is going to Gigabit 0 1 and remove the access group from the interface.
So previously we had this IP access group bound inbound on gigabit.
0 1 which means that the router would not accept any updates from RP because of this entry.
Notice we are getting matches on that entry so abrupt updates were being denied on Rotto 3 show IP ROFFT
the IP writing table looks a lot better.
We have these entries in the writing table and if we have a look at Rotto for previously noticed we
only had these entries in the writing table but now we see this network as an example so Route 1 is
now able to ping the loopback of Rotto for we successfully solved the issue.
Be careful with access lists.
Rupp sends updates on UDP port 520.
If you are denying UDP port 520 Ripp updates will not be sent or received.
Depending on how you bind your access list whether it's inbound and outbound So be careful with the
access lists.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
If it was a benefit you'd like it and please subscribe to my YouTube channel.
I wish you all the very best.